In the last video we gave order attributes, order document and the order schema, this status property
that presumably is going to describe the status of a given order.
So this might be something like, Hey, the order is pending, someone just created it and we are waiting
for someone to pay this order.
Or maybe it has expired or maybe has been canceled by the user, or maybe has been actually paid for.
So we definitely want to record the status set in order is in.
Let me show you a quick diagram to help you really understand how the status is going to be used between
our different services.
Okay.
So let's imagine for a second that we have another service inside of our application.
We are going to eventually have something called payments that is going to handle payments.
Let's imagine what it's going to do.
At some point in time.
Someone's going to come to our orders service and try to create a new order.
So that's going to save a record into a database.
And then presumably we will also emit a event at the same time with the type of something like order
created.
So that event will flow out and eventually go over to the payment service.
And that's going to tell the payment service that it should expect to receive a payment or an order
called by or ID of a CDF, and it knows that it should expect to receive the payment because this thing
has a status of pending.
And we'll imagine that status of pending means we are waiting for someone to pay this thing off.
So that is specifically going to tell the payment service that we should start to watch for an incoming
payment.
So then at some point in time, we can imagine that either someone's going to try to order this thing
like they're going to provide a payment or maybe someone puts in some payment information that is invalid
and we fail to actually build the order.
Let's imagine that scenario really quick.
So we'll say that someone makes a request to the payment service and they enter in a faulty credit card
number or something like that.
And so the payment fails.
If the payment fails, we probably want to emit an event and somehow tell the order service that the
order has failed.
So we might emit an event and say order failed and then give it a status of failed.
So then that's going to float obviously up to the order service and let's imagine how that thing would
process it.
So we're going to get that order failed event.
It's going to go into our order service.
And what are we going to want to do here?
Well, we'll probably want to look in the DB.
Find the order with the ID from the event.
Data.
And then we'll probably want to update the status of that order.
So we would probably update the.
That is of the order to know.
Underscore payment.
So the exact same status that came across inside of that event data body.
Right.
Wait a minute.
Something's not right here.
Take a look at this.
I just put on this diagram right here that we'd want to update the status to the same kind of status
that just came out of the body or the event from the expiration service.
And I said that that status was no payment.
Well, just a moment ago, I showed you a diagram where I said that the status was failed, so the order
was failed.
And between that diagram and this diagram, I mistyped or misremembered the exact string representing
the status of this order.
So what am I getting at here?
Well, long story short, here's what I'm really saying.
We're going to have several services that are very much deeply concerned with the status of in order.
We need to make sure that all these different services have an exact definition of exactly what different
statuses in order can have.
And when I say an exact definition, I mean they need to all have the exact same string to say this
order is failed, it is pending, it has been paid for, it has been completed or whatever else.
And we do not want to have any possibility of accidentally having a typo inside of any of our different
services regarding what the exact status of in order is.
So we never want to have a scenario where we receive an event like this, and ideally we should take
that status right there and set that exact same status to the order inside of our order service.
But if we accidentally write out some bad code by writing in a hardcoded string and we forget the exact
string for the status instead of putting in failed or something like that, if we instead put in know
underscore payment, that is definitely going to lead to some issues in the future.
So what I'm really saying here is this is essentially a reference back to one of those issues we ran
into earlier where we had event types.
And remember, it was really critical for us to make sure that we always got the name of the event or
its type.
Really, it's the subject is how we refer to it.
We always had to make sure we got the subject exactly correct between all of our different services.
Otherwise, services could be listening to different channels on Nats and they would never properly
communicate.
So it's essentially the same thing here.
We need to make sure that all of our different services are using the exact same set of strings.
So how are we going to do this?
Well, naturally, we're going to define something inside of our common library and then share it amongst
all of our different services.
So in our common library, we're going to create a new enum called Order Status.
So this is going to list out all the possible statuses that in order can have.
We'll be given a exact string value for each possible status and then inside of all of our services,
rather than ever trying to write out or remember the exact hardcoded string, we'll instead refer to
the different cases on that email, and that will make sure that we never end up in a scenario where
we accidentally misremember the exact string representing a status.
Case in point, back over here inside of order adders and order doc.
Rather than saying that status is going to be of type string, which could potentially be any string
we could possibly think of and would definitely lead to a typo.
We're going to eventually make sure this thing says order status.
So it must be a status listed in order status or the Order Status enum.
So now we've got a good idea of what we're going to do.
Quick files right here.
We're going to go back over to our common library.
In the next video, we're going to define this enum, make sure it lists all the possible statuses that
in order can be in, and we'll eventually share that amongst all the services that care about those
statuses.